Stateful set integration docs (#3312)
kubernetes-sigs/kueue: site/content/en/docs/tasks/run/statefulset.md

---
title: "Run StatefulSet"
linkTitle: "StatefulSet"
date: 2024-07-25
weight: 6
description: >
  Run a StatefulSet as a Kueue-managed workload.
---

This page shows how to leverage Kueue's scheduling and resource management
capabilities when running StatefulSets.

> Although Kueue does not yet support managing a StatefulSet as a single Workload,

Reviewer: Should we also mention that scaling is not yet supported as well?

> it's still possible to leverage Kueue's scheduling and resource management capabilities for the individual Pods of the StatefulSet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it's still possible to leverage Kueue's scheduling and resource management capabilities for the individual Pods of the StatefulSet.
```
Not sure about it, because we are using Pod group.

We demonstrate how to support scheduling StatefulSets in Kueue based on the Plain Pod integration,

> where every Pod from a StatefulSet is represented as a single independent Plain Pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where every Pod from a StatefulSet is represented as a single independent Plain Pod.
```
```suggestion
where Pods from a StatefulSet are represented as a Pod group.
```
?

This guide is for [serving users](/docs/tasks#serving-user) that have a basic understanding of Kueue.
For more information, see [Kueue's overview](/docs/overview).

## Before you begin

1. Learn how to [install Kueue with a custom manager configuration](/docs/installation/#install-a-custom-configured-released-version).

2. Follow steps in [Run Plain Pods](/docs/tasks/run/plain_pods/#before-you-begin)

>    to learn how to enable the `v1/pod` integration and how to configure it using the `podOptions` field.

Reviewer: I think it would be great to mention that we need to include "statefulset" in the "frameworks" section too.

3. Check [Administer cluster quotas](/docs/tasks/manage/administer_cluster_quotas) for details on the initial Kueue setup.

## Running a StatefulSet admitted by Kueue

When running a StatefulSet on Kueue, take into consideration the following aspects:

### a. Queue selection

> The target [local queue](/docs/concepts/local_queue) should be specified in the `labels` section of the StatefulSet configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The target [local queue](/docs/concepts/local_queue) should be specified in the `metadata.labels` section of the StatefulSet configuration.
```

> Since Kueue's scheduling and resource management will be applied to the individual Pods of the StatefulSet,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Since Kueue's scheduling and resource management will be applied to the individual Pods of the StatefulSet,
> the queue name should be specified at the Pod level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Kueue's scheduling and resource management will be applied to the individual Pods of the StatefulSet,
the queue name should be specified at the StatefulSet level.
```

> Since Kueue's scheduling and resource management will be applied to the individual Pods of the StatefulSet,
> the queue name should be specified at the Pod level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I think it's not need.

```yaml
labels:
   kueue.x-k8s.io/queue-name: user-queue
```

### b. Configure the resource needs

> The resource needs of the workload can be configured in the spec.template.spec.containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resource needs of the workload can be configured in the `spec.template.spec.containers`.
```

```yaml

>     - resources:
>         requests:
>           cpu: 3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          resources:
            requests:
              cpu: "3"
```

---
title: "Run StatefulSet"
linkTitle: "StatefulSet"
date: 2024-07-25
weight: 6
description: >
  Run a StatefulSet as a Kueue-managed workload.
---

This page shows how to leverage Kueue's scheduling and resource management
capabilities when running StatefulSets.

We demonstrate how to support scheduling StatefulSets in Kueue based on the Plain Pod integration with the help of PodGroup,
where StatefulSet is represented as a single independent workload.

This guide is for [serving users](/docs/tasks#serving-user) that have a basic understanding of Kueue.
For more information, see [Kueue's overview](/docs/overview).

## Before you begin

1. Learn how to [install Kueue with a custom manager configuration](/docs/installation/#install-a-custom-configured-released-version).

2. Follow steps in [Run Plain Pods](/docs/tasks/run/plain_pods/#before-you-begin)
   to learn how to enable the `v1/pod` integration and how to configure it using the `podOptions` field.

>    Also, ensure that you have the `v1/statefulset` integration enabled.

Reviewer: I would move it to a separate step and add an example, similar to what we have on the Pods page.

3. Check [Administer cluster quotas](/docs/tasks/manage/administer_cluster_quotas) for details on the initial Kueue setup.

## Running a StatefulSet admitted by Kueue

> > Ensure that you have the `v1/statefulset` integration enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We already have on L25.

---
title: "Run StatefulSet"
linkTitle: "StatefulSet"
date: 2024-07-25
weight: 6
description: >
  Run a StatefulSet as a Kueue-managed workload.
---

This page shows how to leverage Kueue's scheduling and resource management
capabilities when running StatefulSets.

> We demonstrate how to support scheduling StatefulSets in Kueue based on the Plain Pod integration with the help of PodGroup,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We demonstrate how to support scheduling StatefulSets in Kueue based on the [Plain Pod Group](https://kueue.sigs.k8s.io/docs/tasks/run/plain_pods/) integration,
```

1. Learn how to [install Kueue with a custom manager configuration](/docs/installation/#install-a-custom-configured-released-version).

2. Follow steps in [Run Plain Pods](/docs/tasks/run/plain_pods/#before-you-begin)
   to learn how to enable the `v1/pod` integration and how to configure it using the `podOptions` field.
   Also, ensure that you have the `v1/statefulset` integration enabled.

   A configuration for Kueue with enabled statefulset integration would look like follows:
   ```yaml
   apiVersion: config.kueue.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
   kind: Configuration
   integrations:
     frameworks:
      - "pod" # required by statefulset
      - "statefulset"
     podOptions:
       # You can change namespaceSelector to define in which 
       # namespaces kueue will manage the pods.
       namespaceSelector:
         matchExpressions:
         - key: kubernetes.io/metadata.name
           operator: NotIn
           values: [ kube-system, kueue-system ]
       # Kueue uses podSelector to manage pods with particular 
       # labels. The default podSelector will match all the pods. 
       podSelector:
         matchExpressions:
         - key: kueue-job
           operator: In

>            values: [ "true", "True", "yes" ]

Reviewer 2: I think this is not necessary here as this is repeating the content on the Plain pod page. 

Or if you want we could make it minimal: 

2. Ensure that you have the `v1/statefulset` integration enabled, for example:
```yaml
   apiVersion: config.kueue.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
   kind: Configuration
   integrations:
     frameworks:
      - "pod" # required by statefulset
      - "statefulset"
```
Also, follow steps in [Run Plain Pods](/docs/tasks/run/plain_pods/#before-you-begin)
   to learn how to enable the `v1/pod` integration and how to configure it using the `podOptions` field.

Reviewer: I would prefer second one it's more understandable I think.

   ```

3. Check [Administer cluster quotas](/docs/tasks/manage/administer_cluster_quotas) for details on the initial Kueue setup.

## Running a StatefulSet admitted by Kueue

When running a StatefulSet on Kueue, take into consideration the following aspects:

### a. Queue selection

The target [local queue](/docs/concepts/local_queue) should be specified in the `metadata.labels` section of the StatefulSet configuration.

```yaml
metadata:
   labels:
      kueue.x-k8s.io/queue-name: user-queue
```

### b. Configure the resource needs
The resource needs of the workload can be configured in the `spec.template.spec.containers`.

```yaml
spec:
  template:
     spec:
      containers:
       - resources:
           requests:
             cpu: 3
```

### c. Scaling

Currently, scaling operations on StatefulSets are not supported.
This means you cannot perform scale up or scale down operations directly through Kueue.

> Ensure that your StatefulSet configuration accounts for the fixed number of Pods required for your workload.

Reviewer 2: I would drop this sentence.
